Let's recap what
you've seen so far.
Arlo HF is a fine-tuning process
that aligns LLMs with
human preferences.
In this process, you make use of
a reward model to
assess and LLMs
completions of a prompt data
set against some human
preference metric,
like helpful or not helpful.
Next, you use a reinforcement
learning algorithm,
in this case, PPO,
to update the weights off the
LLM based on the reward is
signed to the
completions generated
by the current
version off the LLM.
You'll carry out this cycle of
a multiple iterations using
many different prompts
and updates off
the model weights
until you obtain your
desired degree of alignment.
Your end result is
a human aligned LLM that you
can use in your application.
An interesting problem
that can emerge in
reinforcement learning is
known as reward hacking,
where the agent learns to cheat
the system by favoring
actions that maximize
the reward received even if
those actions don't align
well with the
original objective.
In the context of LLMs,
reward hacking can manifest
as the addition of
words or phrases to
completions that result in
high scores for the
metric being aligned.
But that reduce the overall
quality of the language.
For example, suppose
you are using
RHF to detoxify and
instruct model.
You have already trained
a reward model
that can carry out
sentiment analysis and classify
model completions as
toxic or non-toxic.
You select a prompt from
the training data
this product is,
and pass it to the instruct
an LLM which generates
a completion.
This one, complete
garbage is not very
nice and you can expect it
to get a high toxic rating.
The completion is processed
by the toxicity of reward model,
which generates a score and this
is fed to the PPO algorithm,
which uses it to update
the model weights.
As you iterate RHF will update
the LLM to create a
less toxic responses.
However, as the policy tries
to optimize the reward,
it can diverge too much from
the initial language model.
In this example, the model has
started generating
completions that
it has learned will lead to
very low toxicity
scores by including
phrases like most
awesome, most incredible.
This language sounds
very exaggerated.
The model could also start
generating nonsensical,
grammatically incorrect
text that just
happens to maximize the
rewards in a similar way,
outputs like this are
definitely not very useful.
To prevent our board
hacking from happening,
you can use the initial instruct
LLM as performance reference.
Let's call it the
reference model.
The weights of the reference
model are frozen and are
not updated during
iterations of RHF.
This way, you always maintain
a single reference
model to compare to.
During training, each prompt
is passed to both models,
generating a completion
by the reference
LLM and the intermediate
LLM updated model.
At this point, you can
compare the two completions
and calculate a value
called the Kullback-Leibler
divergence,
or KL divergence for short.
KL divergence is a
statistical measure
of how different two
probability distributions are.
You can use it to compare
the completions off
the two models and
determine how much
the updated model
has diverged from the reference.
Don't worry too much about the
details of how this works.
The KL divergence algorithm
is included in many
standard machine
learning libraries
and you can use
it without knowing all
the math behind it.
You'll actually make
use of KL divergence in
this week's lab so you can
see how this works for yourself.
KL divergence is calculated
for each generate a
token across the whole
vocabulary off the LLM.
This can easily be
tens or hundreds
of thousands of tokens.
However, using a
softmax function,
you've reduced the number
of probabilities to
much less than the
full vocabulary size.
Keep in mind that this is still
a relatively compute
expensive process.
You will almost always
benefit from using GPUs.
Once you've calculated
the KL divergence
between the two models,
you added acid term to
the reward calculation.
This will penalize the RL
updated model if it shifts too
far from the reference
LLM and generates completions
that are two different.
Note that you now
need to full copies
of the LLM to calculate
the KL divergence,
the frozen reference LLM,
and the oral updated PPO LLM.
By the way, you can benefit from
combining our
relationship with puffed.
In this case, you only
update the weights
of a path adapter,
not the full weights of the LLM.
This means that you can reuse
the same underlying LLM for
both the reference model
and the PPO model,
which you update with a
trained path parameters.
This reduces the
memory footprint
during training by
approximately half.
I know that there is a
lot to take in here,
but don't worry, RHF
with path is going to
be covered in the lab.
If you'll get a
chance to see this
in action and try it
out for yourself.
Once you have completed your
RHF alignment of the model,
you will want to assess
the model's performance.
You can use the
summarization data set
to quantify the
reduction in toxicity,
for example, the dialogue,
some data set that you saw
earlier in the course.
The number you'll use here
is the toxicity score,
this is the probability of
the negative class,
in this case,
a toxic or hateful response
averaged across the completions.
If RHF has successfully reduce
the toxicity of your LLM,
this score should go down.
First, you'll create a
baseline toxicity score
for the original instruct
LLM by evaluating
its completions off the
summarization data set
with a reward model that
can assess toxic language.
Then you'll evaluate your
newly human aligned model
on the same data set
and compare the scores.
In this example,
the toxicity score has indeed
decreased after Arlo HF,
indicating a less toxic,
better aligned model.
Again, you'll see all of
this in this week's lab.